Let's continue to work our way into the Excel object model by looking at the work seat.
Object Number 10.
It's no open 06 displaying worksheet properties in this model.
We want to display some work read stance.
So first of all,
we want to display the total number of worksheets currently in the workbook.
And then we want to put some information on each of those sheets.
So the first thing is,
we want to conditionally display that information,
starting with the seat number.
So the way upset this up is that we have one as the first treat position because you can't
delete Aled the seats in a workbook.
You have to have one work street there and then below that.
We've got a simple Excel formula,
which checks to see whether the cell above plus one is less than all report to the value
currently in a to the number of worksheets.
If it is,
then we display the cell above,
plus ones in this case,
we would display it to,
but if it's not,
we display nothing.
And then I just wrapped that insight and if error statements,
so you can think there is an error.
We display nothing.
So if I just type in 12 in here,
you'll see that the 12 numbers now appear and I've only gone down as Faras 15.
Obviously,
we could just keep dragging this formula down,
but 15 fits nicely on my screen,
so that's the way that set up.
We now want to create three user defined functions to complete the model.
So here we want a function,
which will calculate the number of sheets currently in the workbook.
Here We want to function,
which will pick up the sheet name based on the position name of seat one,
name a fleet to and so forth.
And finally,
we want to display the used range,
so they used range of this worksheet.
As you can see,
it always starts from a one on.
Then it stresses its faras column C and Rowe 19 So the use range will be a one colon C 19.
So we need to write three functions.
Let's go into developer visual basic,
and we insert a module in this workbook.
Let's rename the module worksheet stats.
So I m work,
read stats there,
and then it's like in the code window to activate it and go to insert procedure,
procedure,
type function,
and it's called the function worksheet count.
It won't require any input,
but we have to specify its output using the key what eyes?
And it's gonna output a whole number on the standard data type in B B A for whole number is
long,
as in long indigent.
Another command that you'll find useful when you're writing you to define function is
application dot volatile.
And what this means is that your work seat gumption will recalculate whenever any cell
within the workbook is calculated.
And this is useful where you have a worksheet function that's going to go into several
different cells.
So in our model,
well,
obviously want all of these cells to update.
If someone,
for example,
deletes a worksheet,
so I use an application not volatile.
Within our function,
we can make our functions as interactive as possible.
So that's the first line Will could application dot Volatile is a method rather than a
property.
If we just delete it and put it back in again,
you'll see that when I type it,
it has that green icon next to it,
which indicates that it's a method.
The method is basically a function just like an Excel worksheet function on.
As with Excel functions,
most methods take parameters or arguments to specify the argument for a function in V B.
A.
You put a space excelled in obligingly displays the names of all the arguments which that
function takes.
In this case,
as with excels built in worksheet functions,
we can see that the parameter has square brackets around it,
and this means that it's emotional.
However,
let's put it in so I can show you the syntax that you use when you're specifying the
arguments or a function.
Best practice is to put the name of the argument so volatile is we can see and then put
colon equals and the value that applies to that argument.
So this is clearly a 1,000,000,000 value,
and we want to set it to truth.
And,
as you can probably guess,
true is the default.
So if we were to admit it,
we get the same results.
That's just to demonstrate how we write arguments for functions or methods as they call in
League B A.
And now let's specify the return value for our function so as we've seen before.
If the function returns data which this one does,
it returns an insurgent.
We used the key word let in the name of the function equal.
And then we specify a calculation will statement which returns the correct type of data.
So here we want to find out the number of sheets in this workbook.
In other words,
the workbook that contains this function.
So we use application.
No,
this workbook don't work seats and then don't count.
So we've drawn into the hierarchy,
starting with excellent soul down to this workbook,
looking at the worksheets collection inside it.
That's all the work treats it contains on menus in the Count property to find out how many
there are.
And the count will obviously return an indigent a whole number hence which specified that
this worksheet returns a long interview.
Let's just test it so we can just type equal work leads count?
Yes,
and so And we have one.
So so far,
so good.
Let's write our next function.
Now we want the name off our worksheet against that.
Another function procedure,
Brooksie name on.
The key difference here is that we do need an input.
We need to know the number,
the position or that particular workbook that we want the name on little cool,
that prime minister position.
And,
of course,
it's an integer.
The worksheet name,
however,
is a string,
so the function returns a string again.
We'll use application of all the time,
and I'm using controlled drag to copy that line into the new function.
Let's now take this opportunity to put a reference to a work feet inside a variable.
This is something we haven't had to do before,
so let's declare a variable for holding a worksheet.
As always,
it's dim.
And then I'm going to use the prefix wks for worksheet,
and I'll just call it W cast targets as well.
She's to put a reference inside wks worksheet.
We use scent in contrast to let so let container equal is used for making a data ass IG
Nation.
You're what incident data into a data container.
What we doing here?
Within a reference to an excel object.
So that's why we use set as opposed to let so said wks target equal to and then we're
drilling down inside application.
Not this workbook don't work feats and to specify which one.
We just use parentheses and inside the parentheses,
we can either specify a name or a number.
And of course,
our function has asked for a number,
which is the position off the worksheet.
So we can use that as our index inside the parentheses.
So we can now put our return statements what we want to let worksheets name equal.
And of course,
it is a let because works.
The name is a string.
So let's work seat name equal wks targets don't name,
and then let's test equals work seat name.
And this time we need to specify a parameter.
A useful thing you can do,
which we've done a couple of times,
is,
of course,
to insert function.
And the benefit of that is that your prompted.
If there is an argument or several arguments required,
you're always planted as to what they are.
So we just click on the cell that contains the position,
which is a five,
and then we get the name off work sleep one,
which is,
of course,
the website were already in used range is gonna be a virtually identical.
So I'm gonna copy all of this and use that as my starting point.
Change the name of the function two news range.
And then,
of course,
we're returning used range as opposed to worksheet name.
And then the final thing is,
the property that we're home in in on is the use range.
Don't use range,
but used range is a range.
It's not a string,
so you can't just put a range into a cell in Excel.
It's not textual,
so we've got to drill down inside the used range on Find the address on.
As you can see,
this is a property,
and,
of course,
it's just a string.
So let's test equals used range.
Um,
work feeds one treatment pickup.
They fine,
and that gives us our address.
Now,
of course,
if we copy this town before we've actually got a position,
we'll end up with errors.
If I just copy it down ones,
you'll see because there is no work.
She,
too.
We get that value era so we can just do what we've done here and wrap out formula inside
and if error statements.
So,
yeah,
after the equal sign,
we just put if error,
Then,
after the original formula we put comma,
double quotes,
double quotes to indicate blank on that would do the same thing here that will close little
quotes.
So now it's safe to company this all the way down on.
Because all these cells are filled with formula,
I can just double quick.
So without the affair,
we would be getting error values in here.
What we've done with the if era is to replace them with the non string.
So let's introduce some more work feats.
If we get back into the training boulder,
I've got some extra sheets.
06 extra streets.
Let's move them all across something.
Hold down the shift key.
The 1st 1 is ready selected.
I hold down shift,
click on the last that selects all of them.
And then I can just right click Movil copy.
Choose the name of my other work ST 06 on.
Move them to the end in They will go there when I get back to my worksheet stance.
Terrible.
My new seats.
These are the names of the feats,
and then I can check the used range of each one